README.md, before:

# xcode-vm #

This project was started in order to automate the builds of iOS and OS X apps
natively using Xcode but within a portable development VM.

Running OS X inside a VM is challenging. This project presents a start.

Currently, the VM includes...

* Your licensed copy of OS X as a Vagrant base box.
* OS X setup for headless development support.

Things left to script...

* Scripted installation of Xcode and any other Apple dev dependency.
* Included [Fastlane](https://github.com/fastlane/fastlane) for build workflows.
* Included [Gym](https://github.com/fastlane/gym) for building and codesigning iOS apps.
* Installation of [Homebrew](http://brew.sh) and [Cocoapods](https://cocoapods.org) for package management.
* Utilization for processing CD/CI jobs.

You'll need to use your personal, licensed copy of OS X in order to build this
VM. We'll also walk you through downloading Xcode for your VM. Everything else
should be automatically installed for you.

This setup works with Vagrant since [boxcutter/osx][1] provides a well supported
process and Packer template. Hopefully in the future we'll get the time to test
running this VM inside __other__ environments.

Officially, you can only run Apple's Mac OS X on Apple products. Anything else
would make the ghost of Steve Jobs very sad.

[1]: https://github.com/boxcutter/osx

## Requirements ##

* Homebrew
* w/ Brewfile support `brew tap homebrew/bundle`

## Process ##

### Clone Project

Start by cloning this project, note the use of `--recursive` for cloning git
submodules as well.

    $ git clone --recursive https://github.com/cheapRoc/xcode-vm
    $ cd xcode-vm

### Install Homebrew

Install our local dependencies (because you have Homebrew preinstalled).

    $ brew tap homebrew/bundle
    $ brew bundle

### Download OS X

Make sure you've downloaded a copy of the OS X v10.11 El Capitan installation
media (huge app containing the OS X disk image).

- Download OS X from the App Store
- It'll end up in `/Applications/Install OS X El Capitan.app`

### Clone boxcutter/osx

Unless you have an `./osx` directory with files, clone `boxcutter/osx` off of
GitHub. This performs all of the work in turning your OS X installation media
into a proper Vagrant base box.

    $ git clone https://github.com/boxcutter/osx
    $ cd osx

### Prepare OS X Media

From the instructions in `boxcutter/osx` we'll need to prepare the DMG as a
patched ISO.

This script performs a bunch of helpful things like removing all of the OS X
installation steps, configuring post-install hooks, and setting up accounts.

    $ sudo ./prepare_iso/prepare_iso.sh -D DISABLE_REMOTE_MANAGEMENT /Applications/Install\ OS\ X\ El\ Capitan.app dmg

### Pack Base Box

Next, we'll use Packer to automate the generation of our Vagrant base image/box.

    $ packer build -only=virtualbox-iso -var-file=osx1011.json osx.json

### Add to Vagrant

Now we'll add our newly minted base box into Vagrant. Take note of the name
we've given the box, `osx1011`.

    $ vagrant box add ./box/virtualbox/osx1011-nocm-0.1.0.box --name osx1011

### Vagrantfile

Next, create your own `Vagrantfile` via `vagrant init`, or copy our
`Vagrantfile` as your template.

Vagrant machines running OS X will need extra resources in order to run. You'll
probably want to mess around with VirtualBox settings until you've found the
right set of resources for your virtualization host environment.

### Run VM

Now `vagrant up` and `vagrant ssh` in order to log in.

If things worked out and you've SSH'd into your OS X VM, you can `vagrant halt`
for now.

### Download Xcode

Next, you'll need to manually download Xcode from Apple. If you've got an Apple
Developer account you can visit the link below. Click the following link and
you'll be prompted to log into your Apple Developer account to begin the
download.

- [Download Xcode 7.2.1](https://developer.apple.com/services-account/download?path=/Developer_Tools/Xcode_7.2.1/Xcode_7.2.1.dmg)

### Install Xcode

Copy the downloaded file into our work directory and mount it into the VM's file system.

     $ vagrant halt
     $ cp ~/Downloads/Xcode_7.2.1.dmg ./
     $ vagrant up
     $ vagrant ssh
     $ hdiutil attach -nobrowse /vagrant/Xcode_7.2.1.dmg
     $ cp -R /Volumes/Xcode/Xcode.app /Applications/Xcode.app
     $ hdiutil detach /Volumes/Xcode

If everything worked, you should have Xcode installed at the normal
`/Applications/Xcode.app`.

### Install Xcode Server

Next, we'll perform a headless install of Xcode Server. This is just slightly
tricky and hacking to find the simplest way possible is on-going.

For now, just run the following to boot everything up...

    $ /Applications/Xcode.app/Contents/Developer/usr/bin/xcscontrol -initialize

**WARNING:** This ain't done...

## ...but we're close!

So far, I've proven out that you can at least install Xcode Server and run it's
wrapped services (CouchDB, Nginx, Redis) without needing OS X Server. Further
experimentation is required to see why OS X is a dependency within Apple's
documentation. The $19.99 dependency may only be "Bonjour support" but even
that's up for debate with the entire Xcode Server tool set now distributed
within Xcode itself.

Commit message:

Reference amazingly informative 'Xcode Server Hacks' article

README.md, after:

# xcode-vm #

This project was started in order to automate the builds of iOS and OS X apps
natively using Xcode but within a portable development VM.

Running OS X inside a VM is challenging. This project presents a start.

Currently, the VM includes...

* Your licensed copy of OS X as a Vagrant base box.
* OS X setup for headless development support.

Things left to script...

* Scripted installation of Xcode and any other Apple dev dependency.
* Included [Fastlane](https://github.com/fastlane/fastlane) for build workflows.
* Included [Gym](https://github.com/fastlane/gym) for building and codesigning iOS apps.
* Installation of [Homebrew](http://brew.sh) and [Cocoapods](https://cocoapods.org) for package management.
* Utilization for processing CD/CI jobs.

You'll need to use your personal, licensed copy of OS X in order to build this
VM. We'll also walk you through downloading Xcode for your VM. Everything else
should be automatically installed for you.

This setup works with Vagrant since [boxcutter/osx][1] provides a well supported
process and Packer template. Hopefully in the future we'll get the time to test
running this VM inside __other__ environments.

Officially, you can only run Apple's Mac OS X on Apple products. Anything else
would make the ghost of Steve Jobs very sad.

[1]: https://github.com/boxcutter/osx

## Requirements ##

* Homebrew
* w/ Brewfile support `brew tap homebrew/bundle`

## Process ##

### Clone Project

Start by cloning this project, note the use of `--recursive` for cloning git
submodules as well.

    $ git clone --recursive https://github.com/cheapRoc/xcode-vm
    $ cd xcode-vm

### Install Homebrew

Install our local dependencies (because you have Homebrew preinstalled).

    $ brew tap homebrew/bundle
    $ brew bundle

### Download OS X

Make sure you've downloaded a copy of the OS X v10.11 El Capitan installation
media (huge app containing the OS X disk image).

- Download OS X from the App Store
- It'll end up in `/Applications/Install OS X El Capitan.app`

### Clone boxcutter/osx

Unless you have an `./osx` directory with files, clone `boxcutter/osx` off of
GitHub. This performs all of the work in turning your OS X installation media
into a proper Vagrant base box.

    $ git clone https://github.com/boxcutter/osx
    $ cd osx

### Prepare OS X Media

From the instructions in `boxcutter/osx` we'll need to prepare the DMG as a
patched ISO.

This script performs a bunch of helpful things like removing all of the OS X
installation steps, configuring post-install hooks, and setting up accounts.

    $ sudo ./prepare_iso/prepare_iso.sh -D DISABLE_REMOTE_MANAGEMENT /Applications/Install\ OS\ X\ El\ Capitan.app dmg

### Pack Base Box

Next, we'll use Packer to automate the generation of our Vagrant base image/box.

    $ packer build -only=virtualbox-iso -var-file=osx1011.json osx.json

### Add to Vagrant

Now we'll add our newly minted base box into Vagrant. Take note of the name
we've given the box, `osx1011`.

    $ vagrant box add ./box/virtualbox/osx1011-nocm-0.1.0.box --name osx1011

### Vagrantfile

Next, create your own `Vagrantfile` via `vagrant init`, or copy our
`Vagrantfile` as your template.

Vagrant machines running OS X will need extra resources in order to run. You'll
probably want to mess around with VirtualBox settings until you've found the
right set of resources for your virtualization host environment.

### Run VM

Now `vagrant up` and `vagrant ssh` in order to log in.

If things worked out and you've SSH'd into your OS X VM, you can `vagrant halt`
for now.

### Download Xcode

Next, you'll need to manually download Xcode from Apple. If you've got an Apple
Developer account you can visit the link below. Click the following link and
you'll be prompted to log into your Apple Developer account to begin the
download.

- [Download Xcode 7.2.1](https://developer.apple.com/services-account/download?path=/Developer_Tools/Xcode_7.2.1/Xcode_7.2.1.dmg)

### Install Xcode

Copy the downloaded file into our work directory and mount it into the VM's file system.

     $ vagrant halt
     $ cp ~/Downloads/Xcode_7.2.1.dmg ./
     $ vagrant up
     $ vagrant ssh
     $ hdiutil attach -nobrowse /vagrant/Xcode_7.2.1.dmg
     $ cp -R /Volumes/Xcode/Xcode.app /Applications/Xcode.app
     $ hdiutil detach /Volumes/Xcode

If everything worked, you should have Xcode installed at the normal
`/Applications/Xcode.app`.

### Install Xcode Server

Next, we'll perform a headless install of Xcode Server. This is just slightly
tricky and hacking to find the simplest way possible is on-going.

For now, just run the following to boot everything up...

    $ /Applications/Xcode.app/Contents/Developer/usr/bin/xcscontrol -initialize

**WARNING:** This ain't done...

## ...but we're close!

So far, I've proven out that you can at least install Xcode Server and run it's
wrapped services (CouchDB, Nginx, Redis) without needing OS X Server. Further
experimentation is required to see why OS X is a dependency within Apple's
documentation. <strike>The $19.99 dependency may only be "Bonjour support" but even
that's up for debate with the entire Xcode Server tool set now distributed
within Xcode itself.</strike>

BTW, [Xcode Server Hacks](https://honzadvorsky.com/articles/2015-05-04-under-the-hood-of-xcode-server/) by [@czechboy0](https://twitter.com/czechboy0) is insanely handy...

Yup, looks like [OS X Server is not a requirement](https://honzadvorsky.com/articles/2015-08-12-xcode_server_hacks_cli_xcscontrol/).
